---
layout: post
title: "Decoding CVSS: Prioritizing Vulnerability Security"
excerpt: CVSS rates vulnerability severity for prioritizing security."
date: 2023-08-07
time: 5min
description: "The Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS) is a standardized framework for assessing the severity of vulnerabilities in computer systems and networks. Are you interested? Jump in!"
classes: wide
keywords: CVSS, Risk, Metrics, Score
image: /assets/img/cvsscover.png
teaser: /assets/img/cvsscover.png
header:
  teaser_home_page: true
categories:
  - Cybersecurity
tags:  
  - Standards/Frameworks
---

The Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS) is a fundamental tool in information security management. It was developed to provide a standardized way of measuring the severity of vulnerabilities and helping organizations prioritize their security resources and actions. In this article, we will explore the base and temporal metrics of CVSS, how it is calculated, and provide an example to illustrate its functioning.
CVSS Base Metrics

CVSS base metrics focus on the inherent characteristics of a vulnerability and consist of two main groups: exploitability metrics and impact metrics.

## Exploitability Metrics

Exploitability metrics assess how easily an attacker can exploit a vulnerability. These metrics include:

- Access Vector: Indicates how an attacker might access the system. Values can be "Local" (attack from the same system), "Adjacent Network" (adjacent network), or "Network."

- Access Complexity: Evaluates the difficulty of exploiting the vulnerability. It can be "Low" (low complexity), "Medium" (medium complexity), or "High" (high complexity).

- Authentication: Determines whether an attacker needs to authenticate to exploit the vulnerability. It can be "None" (no authentication), "Single" (single authentication), or "Multiple" (multiple authentication).

## Impact Metrics

Impact metrics assess the consequences of a successful exploitation of the vulnerability in terms of the "CIA triad":

- Confidentiality: Evaluates the impact on information confidentiality. It can be "None" (no impact), "Partial" (partial impact), or "Complete" (complete impact).

- Integrity: Evaluates the impact on data integrity. Values can be "None," "Partial," or "Complete."

- Availability: Evaluates the impact on resource availability. Values can be "None," "Partial," or "Complete."

## Temporal Metric Group

The temporal metric group of CVSS refers to the evolution of the vulnerability over time and includes the following metrics:

- Exploit Code Maturity: Indicates how mature the exploitation code available for the vulnerability is. It can be "Unproven" (unproven), "Proof-of-Concept" (proof of concept), "Functional" (functional), or "High" (high).

- Remediation Level: Reflects the status of available solutions to mitigate the vulnerability. Values can be "Official Fix" (official solution), "Temporary Fix" (temporary solution), "Workaround" (alternative solution), or "Unavailable" (unavailable).

## Calculating CVSS

CVSS scores are calculated using a specific formula that takes into account the values assigned to the various metrics discussed above. The formula is complex and involves several mathematical operations, but it results in a numeric score on a scale from 0 to 10. A higher score indicates a more severe vulnerability.
Example

Let's consider an example of a vulnerability assessment using CVSS:

Suppose there is a vulnerability in a widely used software application. After analyzing the various metrics, we determine the following:

- Access Vector: Network

- Access Complexity: Medium

- Authentication: Single

- Confidentiality: Partial

- Integrity: Complete

- Availability: None

- Exploit Code Maturity: High

- Remediation Level: Official Fix

Using the CVSS formula, we calculate the base score to be 7.8. This score indicates a moderately severe vulnerability. Organizations can use this score to prioritize their efforts to address the vulnerability, allocate resources, and take appropriate security measures.

In conclusion, CVSS is a valuable tool for assessing and prioritizing vulnerabilities in the realm of information security. Understanding its metrics and how to calculate scores can greatly assist organizations in effectively managing their security risks.